today we have a very good question and
answer we get a lot of email questions
cindy answers them all a lot of our
customers have very small dogs and
unfortunately a lot of people that have
small dogs don't establishes rules and
expectations early enough and they end
up having dogs that have dominance
issues and that's what this email deals
with says hello Cindy I spent the better
part of Monday in my weekend reading
various articles and watching a number
of your free video on demands thanks for
providing such a wonderful resource I
have a very small female pop alien she's
four or five pounds she has some
dominance issues that I would like to
work through and correct I'm also
working on being a better pack leader
and establishing better rules to help
her my problem is because she is so
small I have a hard time finding collars
that are small enough to fit her I would
like to get the dominant dog collar but
her neck measures six and a half to
seven inches and the smallest collar
that you sell is eight inches do you
have any suggestions for what you would
work on or work with on such a small dog
should I use a a prawn collar
Nicole Nicole it's a very good question
what we would recommend well first let
me explain the issue of these dominant
dog collars we sell these are great
great training tools but if you look at
the size of this dominant dog collar and
this is an 8 inch dominant dog collar
what you're faced with or what we're
faced with in making these and we're
going to try and make some six and seven
inch dominant dog collars but what we're
faced with is getting hardware that's
small enough for a dog that's only 5
pounds
keep in mind how small that is people
that don't have dogs this small have a
hard time imagining it but we have to
get rings and clips that work you know
on a 6 inch collar that's really really
hard
what we would recommend probably and
we'll try it we we wrote the person that
makes these and said put together some
samples let us look at them if we feel
it works okay we'll sell them but if I'm
not satisfied with what they look like
when they come if I think it's going to
be big and clunky on the dog we won't
sell them but a good solution a good
alternative are these eight inch slip
leads that we sell that are made from
Mendota accomplishes the same thing the
ring on this slip lead is actually
smaller and lighter weight than the ring
and our dominant dog collars so I think
you could use this British style slip
lead and I think it would be very
effective you asked a question about a
prawn collar if you choose to go with a
prawn collar we would point you to these
mini micro prongs that we sell they're
very very very small the thing to keep
in mind about prawn collars though is
that with some dogs and dogs that have
dominance issues a correction from a
prawn collar can trigger an aggressive
reaction so you kind of have to work
around that and figure out if I put this
prawn Carl on my dog and I and I give it
a correction is it going to get
aggressive towards me if it does you're
creating a problem that you really don't
have to deal with you might be better
off to going over and backing up and
using the slippery lead rather than the
prawn collar now a lot of dogs don't get
corrected or don't get aggressive with
prawn collars but some do so we can't
give a definitive answer on which you
should do with your dog obviously we
haven't seen your dog if you want a
couple of videos that are going to help
you with the problems you have I would
direct you towards the DVD I did
establishing pack structure with the
family pet and the DVD that I did on
dealing with dominant and aggressive
dogs take a look at those and I think
between well what we've talked about
here and the information in those DVDs
you're going to solve your problem